# AMMI Biplots with ggplot2

Generates a high-quality biplot (PC1 vs PC2) for classical or robust
AMMI models using the ggplot2 framework.

## Usage

``` r
rAMMIPlot(
  model_res,
  colGen = "gray47",
  colEnv = "darkred",
  sizeGen = 6,
  sizeEnv = 6,
  titles = TRUE,
  footnote = TRUE,
  axis_expand = 1.2,
  limits = TRUE,
  axes = TRUE,
  axislabels = TRUE
)
```

## Arguments

- model_res:

  an object of class `rAMMI` generated by
  [`rAMMIModel`](https://github.com/jangelini/geneticae/reference/rAMMIModel.md).

- colGen:

  color for genotype labels. Defaults to \`"gray47"\`.

- colEnv:

  color for environment labels and vectors. Defaults to \`"darkred"\`.

- sizeGen:

  text size for genotype labels. Defaults to 6.

- sizeEnv:

  text size for environment labels. Defaults to 6.

- titles:

  logical. If \`TRUE\` (default), a title indicating the model type is
  added to the plot.

- footnote:

  logical. If \`TRUE\` (default), a caption with the percentage of
  explained GxE variation is added at the bottom.

- axis_expand:

  numeric value to expand the axis limits. Useful to prevent labels from
  being cut off. Defaults to 1.2.

- limits:

  logical. If \`TRUE\` (default), uses `coord_fixed()` to maintain a 1:1
  aspect ratio between axes.

- axes:

  logical. If \`TRUE\` (default), draws dashed horizontal and vertical
  lines passing through the origin (0,0).

- axislabels:

  logical. If \`TRUE\` (default), includes axis titles with the
  percentage of variance explained by each principal component.

## Value

A ggplot2 object. This allows further customization using standard
ggplot layers (e.g., `+ theme_bw()`).

## Details

the biplot is constructed using a scaling factor of 0.5 (symmetric
scaling), which allows representing both genotypes and environments in
the same algebraic space. Genotypes are displayed as points (text), and
environments are represented as vectors from the origin.

## Examples

``` r
library(agridat)
data(yan.winterwheat)

# Classical AMMI
mod_ammi <- rAMMIModel(yan.winterwheat, genotype = "gen", 
                       environment = "env", response = "yield", type = "AMMI")

rAMMIPlot(mod_ammi,sizeGen=4,sizeEnv=4)


data(plrv)
mod_ammi_rep <- rAMMIModel(plrv, genotype="Genotype", environment="Locality", 
                        response="Yield", rep="Rep", type="AMMI")
rAMMIPlot(mod_ammi_rep,sizeGen=4,sizeEnv=4)

```
